[BLOG] In-App purchase article (#4509)
pwa-builder/PWABuilder: apps/blog/src/posts/ios-iap-experiment/ios-iap-experiment.md

---
layout: post
title: You Won’t Believe How We Enabled In-App Purchases for PWAs on iOS
excerpt: This post guides us through the journey of how we wrangled Swift to integrate in-app purchases in iOS PWAs.
description: A step-by-step account of integrating in-app purchases in iOS PWAs despite the restrictions.
date: 2023-11-07
updatedDate: 2023-11-03
trending: true
featured: true

> image: posts/ios-iap-experiment/pic-1-min.jpg

Reviewer: Just double checking since this will be used as the title image for the preview card. Can you check the dementions [here](https://www.figma.com/file/MKOsyENr69zpM8qy0mDudY/Blogs?type=design&node-id=11-86&mode=design&t=f0mq8JZgSPC4kxTo-0) against the existing posts and make sure this image is the same size? If you need assistance, you can ask @sanadeee for help. Sana has created a "hero" version of an image of choice for the past posts.

isPost: true
backUrl: '/'
author:
  name: "Gleb Khmyznikov"
  twitter: https://twitter.com/khmyznikov
  title: Software Engineer
tags:
  - post
  - PWA
  - iOS
  - Swift
  - in-app purchases
  - ChatGPT
---

<figure>
  <video preload="none" controls poster="/posts/ios-iap-experiment/pic-1-min.jpg">
    <source src="/posts/ios-iap-experiment/video.webm" type="video/webm">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Buying Apple Subscription from the Store PWA</figcaption>
</figure>

> Progressive Web Applications (PWA) aka Web Apps on iOS typically have restricted access to Apple's exclusive APIs compared to native apps. These limitations extend to user reachability, purchases, and authentication features. Even after the introduction of the Web Push API to [Safari's PWA](https://www.macrumors.com/how-to/use-web-apps-iphone-ipad/), there continues to be a limitation in access for [Store PWAs](https://docs.pwabuilder.com/#/builder/app-store?id=publishing-pwas-to-the-app-store). This restriction also applies to In-App Purchases (which is the opposite for [Android](https://chromeos.dev/en/publish/pwa-play-billing) and [Windows](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2023/05/23/microsoft-edge-build-2023-innovations-in-ai-productivity-management-sidebar-apps/#digitalgoods:~:text=Digital%20goods%20API%20support%20for%20in%2Dapp%20purchases%20is%20coming%20to%20Microsoft%20Edge%20Progressive%20Web%20Apps%20(PWAs)%20published%20on%20Microsoft%20Store))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Progressive Web Applications](https://docs.pwabuilder.com/#/home/pwa-intro) on iOS typically have restricted access to Apple's exclusive APIs compared to native apps. These limitations extend to user reachability, purchases, and authentication features. Even after the introduction of the Web Push API to [Safari's PWA](https://www.macrumors.com/how-to/use-web-apps-iphone-ipad/), there continues to be a limitation in access for [Store PWAs](https://docs.pwabuilder.com/#/builder/app-store?id=publishing-pwas-to-the-app-store). This restriction also applies to In-App Purchases (which is the opposite for [Android](https://chromeos.dev/en/publish/pwa-play-billing) and [Windows](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2023/05/23/microsoft-edge-build-2023-innovations-in-ai-productivity-management-sidebar-apps/#digitalgoods:~:text=Digital%20goods%20API%20support%20for%20in%2Dapp%20purchases%20is%20coming%20to%20Microsoft%20Edge%20Progressive%20Web%20Apps%20(PWAs)%20published%20on%20Microsoft%20Store))
```

![Lack of Web APIs in Store PWA (WKWebView)](/posts/ios-iap-experiment/pic-2-min.jpg)

> For those new to this context, let me give a quick primer. PWABuilder allows developers to package PWA for various platforms, including Apple Store. It achieves this by automatically generating a Swift project-wrapper, significantly simplifying the process. However, this approach has certain limitations. Notably, it does not natively support the integration of In-App Purchases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For those new to PWABuilder, let me give a quick primer. The PWABuilder service can package Progressive Web Apps for various platforms, including the Apple App Store. It achieves this by automatically generating a Swift project-wrapper, allowing PWA developers to target the App Store without having to touch native iOS code. However, this approach has certain limitations. Notably, it does not natively support the integration of In-App Purchases.
```

> This gap in functionality necessitates additional coding and configurations, which can be quite a challenge especially for those of you who, like me, are PWA developers with limited Swift experience. But with challenges come opportunities, and this is where it gets interesting. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This gap in functionality comes with extra coding and configurations, which can be quite a challenge especially for those of you who, like me, are PWA developers with limited Swift experience. But with challenges come opportunities, and this is where it gets interesting. Let's see how we can enable in-app purchases in our PWA.
```

  })
}
```

Following the [Swift implementation](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/tree/iap), the next step was to configure the front end of the [demo PWA](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-shell) to handle these new events. We set up JavaScript event listeners to respond to messages from the Swift class, thus creating a smooth relay between Swift and JavaScript.

```javascript
productsRequest() {
  if (this.iOSIAPCapability)
    window.webkit.messageHandlers['iap-products-request'].postMessage([
      'demo_product_id', 
      'demo_product2_id',
      'demo_subscription',
      'demo_subscription_auto'
    ]);
}

window.addEventListener('iap-products-result', (event: CustomEvent) => {
  if (event && event.detail) {
    this.logMessage(event.detail, true);
    this.products = JSON.parse(event.detail);
  }
});

```

![Products and Transactions passed to PWA from Store Kit 2](/posts/ios-iap-experiment/pic-4-min.jpg)

The output until now is promising. We've managed to make a prototype that starts and manages In-App purchase processes within Store PWAs on Apple devices. However, we've only just started.

> For you to follow along:
> - MacOS with a fresh Xcode is required for this project (sadly)
> - Use [this repository](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/tree/iap) with "iap" branch as your base. It’s pre-configured as a demo of IAP.
> - Follow [readme instructions](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/tree/iap#readme) about the CocoaPods installation, but skip the firebase setup section
> - Also check [this instruction](https://docs.pwabuilder.com/#/builder/app-store?id=building-your-app) about the building and publishing xcode project.
> - Check the [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/setting-up-storekit-testing-in-xcode/) about StoreKit testing, and update [StoreKit test file](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/blob/iap/pwaShellStore.storekit) for your needs
> - Native logic is in [IAP.swift file](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/blob/iap/pwa-shell/IAP.swift)
> - The source code for web demo component of [you can find here](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-shell/blob/main/src/components/in-app-purchase.ts)
> - Feel free to create [issue here](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/issues) or reach us in [Discord](https://aka.ms/pwabuilderdiscord) for any questions 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For you to follow along:
1. MacOS with a fresh Xcode is required for this project (sadly)
2. Use [this repository](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/tree/iap) with "iap" branch as your base. It’s pre-configured as a demo of IAP.
3. Follow [readme instructions](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/tree/iap#readme) about the CocoaPods installation, but skip the firebase setup section
4. Also check [this instruction](https://docs.pwabuilder.com/#/builder/app-store?id=building-your-app) about the building and publishing xcode project.
5. Check the [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/setting-up-storekit-testing-in-xcode/) about StoreKit testing, and update [StoreKit test file](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/blob/iap/pwaShellStore.storekit) for your needs
6. Native logic is in [IAP.swift file](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/blob/iap/pwa-shell/IAP.swift)
7. The source code for web demo component of [you can find here](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-shell/blob/main/src/components/in-app-purchase.ts)
8. Feel free to create [issue here](https://github.com/khmyznikov/ios-pwa-wrap/issues) or reach us in [Discord](https://aka.ms/pwabuilderdiscord) for any questions 
```
